I am a natural optimist, also a dreamer about something big. This big is
relative in the sense that its state is dynamic with the outside world or
sometimes with my own inside spiritual world. I am also enthusiastic about human
technologies. Combining these both gives me a strong vision and expectation of
innovations. As human technologies are enduring with a small progress almost in
every theoretical and industrial domain these decades, I have to absort
inspiration from sci-fi movies and writings. As a result StarTrek becomes my
favorite episodes and movie series. This deepest depression against reality also
motivates me to explore some projects that would fulfill my own vision on the
future.

## Education

*   2010-2016: Shanghai Jiaotong Univ., Information and Communication
    Engineering, Ph.D
*   2006-2010: Xidian Univ., Optical Information and Science Technology,
    Bachelor

## Ph.D Research

My Ph.D research was on renewed models and characteristics of human mobility,
with advanced statistical techniques upon large-scale network traffic. There is
a large gap between observable behavioral patterns and digital bits that is
collected from raw network data like mobile geo-located application traffic.
Advanced analysis and modeling approaches are still in a shortage. This shortage
inspires my initial efforts on the work. My thesis was advised by Prof. [Yaohui
Jin](http://front.sjtu.edu.cn/~jinyh/) at [Shanghai Jiao Tong
Univ.](http://en.sjtu.edu.cn/). Now [the
thesis](https://github.com/caesar0301/phd-dissertation) is available for public
(in Chinese).

In the reasearch, a by-product is the initialization of [awesome-public-data
community](https://github.com/awesomedata). During the early years of big data
(back to 2009 and 2010), it suffered a painful search for high-quality research
data. This urged me to start the data community and host a bunch of reasearch
quality data. This community is still active since then. You can access [slack
channel](https://awesomedataworld.slack.com/) for latest discussion on data joy.
